# CareBridge
## Overview
CareBridge is a mobile application designed to provide a one-stop solution to senior citizens, family members, and volunteers. Use cases for the application are as mentioned below:
 - Senior Citizens:
   - Get medicine reminders
   - Get checklists for groceries
   - Pair with family members
 - Family Members:
   - Can book appointments with volunteers
   - Pair with senior citizens
   - Update / Create checklists for elderly people
 - Volunteers:
   - Get info on senior citizens
   - Provide availability in Appointments

Other miscellaneous features include:
 - Fall Detection for senior citizens (using Accelerometer and Gyroscope)
 - Email services for all members
 - Push notifications for all members

To read more about the dependencies, refer to the `readme.md` mentioned in the respective folders.
## How to use it
### Front End
Set the file to the CareBridgeUi folder
```
cd .\CareBridgeUi\
```
Install npm
``` bash
npm i
```
Install the expo globally and run
``` bash
expo start --tunnel
```
Then enter "w" in the terminal it will start a web server.

Additionally, you can also run our front end application using Expo Go once the Metro builder has initialized. Press "s" to run using Expo Go, after which you can scan the generated QR code using the [Expo Go](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=host.exp.exponent&hl=en&gl=US&pli=1) app on your phone.

### Back End
The entire backend folder can be utilized as a separate maven project. Steps to run the project on your local machine:
 - Import the Backend folder in IntelliJ
 - In build configurations, click on **Run / Debug Configurations** > **Edit Configurations**
 - Add a Spring Boot configuration with the below config (To run locally):
   - **Build & Run:** (SDK: Java 21) `com.carebridge.backend.BackendApplication`
 - Add a Maven configuration with the below config (To create a **jar** file):
   - **Run:** `package -DskipTests`

### Docker
Our VM runs the docker image of our backend. This image is available on Docker Hub at the [link](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/group20/carebridge-backend/general).

Once the jar file has been generated by Maven, we can create a docker image using the below command

```bash
cd Backend
docker build -t carebridge-backend .
```

Our CI/CD pipeline automatically builds the backend and pushes the latest docker image to the Docker hub repository. After this, the VM then pulls the image and runs it using the below command

```bash
docker run -d --name carebridge-backend -p 8080:8080 carebridge-backend
```

Please note that we specify the name of the container so that our pipeline can stop the previous running instance of the code and run the latest build.

### Database

Our project runs on MySQL Database.

The initializing script can be found in `Database scripts > Database init script.sql`

You can directly run the script in your database editor to create our tables which can then be used by Spring Boot.